Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu says there will be
no temporary ceasefire
unless all hostages held
by Hamas are freed.
That is despite Secretary of State
Antony Blinken
calling for a pause today as he met
with Israeli leaders in Tel Aviv.
Meantime, in his first public remarks
since the conflict began,
Hezbollah's leader, Hassan
Nasrallah, praised
Hamas's attacks on Israel
while adding
that Hezbollah's
primary goal is a cease fire.
He said the possibility
of a larger
regional conflict with Israel
is a, quote, realistic option.
Joining us now to discuss
is Leon Panetta.
He's a former secretary of defense
and CIA director
in the Obama administration.
Sir, thank you so much for being with us.
The leader of Hezbollah
making a lot of threats,
not offering many specifics, though.
How precarious do you think
the situation is right now
along Israel's northern border?
I don't think there's any question
but that
the situation remains so precarious.
You know, we're
we're in the middle of the war.
But Israel is proceeding to
go after Hamas.
If they're right and they have, in fact,
taken out Hamas leaders
and are continuing to do that,
if Hamas feels
that their back is against the wall.
There's no question in my mind
that they're going to ask for help
and they'll turn to Iran,
obviously turn to Hezbollah.
But all of Iran's proxies in the region
from Iraq down to Yemen.
And so I think
the potential for a possible expansion
of this war is real as secretary.
CNN has learned that the U.S.
military is sending surveillance drones
to fly over Gaza
to try to help the IDF locate hostages.
What can you tell us
about the capabilities of those drones,
especially in a situation
where the hostages
are likely being held
in tunnels underground?
Well, I think it's very important
if you're going to do
the kind of targeting
that I think is necessary
to be able to go after Hamas.
You're going to
you're going to have to
not only use drones.
You're going to have to use
human intelligence as well.
But that's pretty much what we did
in going after al Qaeda after 911.
And we could not have been able
to establish those targets
without the help of drones, but also
without the help of human intelligence
people on the ground.
So I'm hoping they can get
that kind of combination
working with them,
because that is the most effective way
to make sure
that you are accurate
in going after Hamas.
President Biden
and his administration has been urging
Israel and Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu
to consider pausing its operation in Gaza
for a series of different
humanitarian objectives.
And then Yahoo!
Is determined to press ahead
and not have any kind of cessation
of hostilities.
What's the correct course of action,
you think, from both a political
and a military perspective?
If you were advising the prime minister?
Well, first of all, I'm
glad that Secretary Blinken
went to the area
and asked for that kind
of humanitarian pause.
I think it's very important
for the United States
at the highest level
to stay in touch with the leadership,
not just in Israel, but in the
the countries that adjoin Israel.
Look,
this
this is a situation
where the issue is going to be
is the price right for Netanyahu?
He obviously is in the middle of a war.
His tanks are there.
His troops are there.
They're going after Hamas.
He's not particularly interested
in slowing that process down.
We all understand that.
On the other side,
Hamas is holding these hostages
and very frankly, they don't care a lot
about the human side of these hostages.
The question is going to be
what kind of price do they get
if they're going to release the hostages.
So so right now,
I don't know that the price is right
on either side.
What could possibly help
is to be able to
develop an approach where
you want Hamas to
release the hostages, but in return,
they're going to get the release
of Palestinian prisoners.
That that could, I think, be possibly
the kind of price
that might result in that kind of deal
being fulfilled
as those negotiations,
those conversations are ongoing
specifically to get hostages out.
I'm wondering what you make of that
apparent disagreement
between the United States
and Israel
over the correct course of action
to take on on a pause?
Well,
you know, look,
I think the president's
been right to urge a pause.
There is a pause that is necessary
in order to be able
to provide the humanitarian relief
that is critical for the Palestinians
and it's critical
for others
that obviously
have been injured in this war.
So it's the right
it's the right thing to do.
And I think,
you know, from my own experience,
I think the key is to continue
to pressure the Israelis
to be able to provide
not not only a pause, but to make
make it possible to
get humanitarian aid into Gaza
so that we can provide the food
and the the care that is essential
to deal with those
that have been injured.
I think if Israel needs to know that
while there is a lot of support,
obviously for their ability
to defend their country
and go after Hamas,
that in order for them to be able
to maintain their credibility,
they also have to keep an eye
on how to provide
humanitarian relief
to those that have been hurt.
Secretary Leon Panetta,
thanks so much for sharing your time
and perspective with us.
Good to be with you.
Of course.